Git version control and local setup:-

step 1:-
git init (initialise git repository in the working directory).
to check use ls -a(since it is hidden).
step 2:-
git add index.html(select the file).
(This will add the file into staging area and ready to be commited from which we can pick up files and identify changes)

git config --global user.email "as6587@srmist.edu.in"
git config --global user.name "Sampath Abhishek"

working directory ---->Staging area ---------->Local Repository.

why is there a staging area because sometimes u might want to revert back to last save point ,for that purpose.

suppose u wrote skdskanflasnflsng in bymistake in and saved chapter2.txt
then use
git checkout
to reach back previous savepont i.e commit point. and it will overwrite chapter2.txt back to that.

step 3:-(saving the file -->means making a commit)
git commit -m "create index.html"(the messg is called commit mssg.)
step - 4:-(sharing files:-)
Git uses something called a remote (or remote repository) to 
store shared files.
Developers share files by uploading to and downloading from 
remotes. 
a)Adding remote:-
 git  remote  add origin https://prog-8.com/mysite.git 
b)uploading file to remote.
git push origin master      git push -u origin master.
c) downloading that file of ours from remote.
git pull origin master

so summary:-
       ->  add---->
    pull        commit
      |            |
   <----- push <---

mastering the git:-
1.git status

suppose if you have changed your code in index.html ,then to check the modified changes the above
command hepls.all files modified would be displayed in red.

git status can also be used check added files(green) and modified but not added files(red)

2.git diff
-->this will show u where exactly u modified ur code.
There is more. Modified code will be displayed, as shown on the right, with the code after in green and the code before in red.

3.git log
all committed messages are displayed by this command.

With git log, can I see both the commit messages and the changes that were made?

To see the changes, you can use 
4.git log -p.
With the up and down arrow keys, you can scroll through the changes. 
And to quit just press the Q(shift + q) key.



so local repository is called .git
and remote is called github.


gitignore --->very imp

Sometimes we might host some files which are confidential but if this which is committed we don't want to get pushed as it might
leak our information so gitignore will help in ignoring it.

.DIS_store -->these are the file that contains file settings on how should the icons look like etc.

git rm --cached -r -->will removes all files from staging area -->very imp.


git clone(A process to pull down all the commits and files from remote repository to our current working directory)
git clone url(go to github choose ur file to download and copy link from there and paste)
now when u execute this command the repository gets added in ur working directory as an existing folder.


